docs: Initial gatsby-plugin-image reference guide (#28935)
gatsbyjs/gatsby: docs/docs/reference/built-in-components/gatsby-plugin-image.md

---
title: Gatsby Image plugin
---

This guide will show you how to configure your images, including choosing layouts, placeholders and image processing options. If you would like to learn how to set up the image plugins and use images on your site, see [the how-to guide](/docs/how-to/images-and-media/using-gatsby-plugin-image).

## Components

The Gatsby Image plugin includes two components to display responsive images on your site, used for static and dynamic images.

- **`StaticImage`:** Use this if the image is the same every time the component is used. _Examples: site logo, index page hero image_
- **`GatsbyImage`:** Use this if the image is passed-in to the component as a prop. _Examples: Blog post hero image, author avatar_

## Image options

> The API for both components is almost the same. The difference is how you pass the properties. When using `StaticImage`, they are passed as props to the component, whereas for the `GatsbyImage` component they are passed to the `gatsbyImageData` GraphQL resolver. There is a small change in the values too: in the `StaticImage` component, props such as layout and placeholder take a string, while the resolver takes a GraphQL enum, which is in upper case by convention and is not quoted like a string. Both options are shown in the reference below.

Author: Changed to "The options..."

---
title: Gatsby Image plugin
---

> This guide will show you how to configure your images, including choosing layouts, placeholders and image processing options. If you would like to learn how to set up the image plugins and use images on your site, see [the how-to guide](/docs/how-to/images-and-media/using-gatsby-plugin-image).

Reviewer: > If you would like to learn how to set up the image plugins and use images on your site, see [the how-to guide](/docs/how-to/images-and-media/using-gatsby-plugin-image).

I'd move this sentence down after you list out the components. So that it's like "Here are the two components you can use. If you want an example, go to the how-to guide."

Reviewer: Maybe in this introduction we could put a similar callout as in the other doc, sending people to the Conceptal Guide about image optimizations.

## Components

The Gatsby Image plugin includes two components to display responsive images on your site, used for static and dynamic images.

- **`StaticImage`:** Use this if the image is the same every time the component is used. _Examples: site logo, index page hero image_
- **`GatsbyImage`:** Use this if the image is passed-in to the component as a prop. _Examples: Blog post hero image, author avatar_

> ## Image options

Reviewer: Are these options all optional? (Sounds silly when I write it out like that...)

It might be good to add a quick intro sentence to give this section some context. I don't love this wording, but something like: "If you'd like to override the default behavior of `StaticImage` and `GatsbyImage`, you can pass in one or more additional options."

Reviewer 2: Nothing is required except for alt. Which is not explicitly listed but in all the examples, so we should probably adjust that.

> It is a very good idea to use [the GraphiQL IDE](/docs/how-to/querying-data/running-queries-with-graphiql) when writing your `gatsbyImageData` queries. It includes auto-complete and inline documentation for all of the options and lets you see the generated image data right inside the IDE.

### Layout

**Prop name: `layout`**

The image components support three types of layout, which determine the image sizes that are generated, as well as the resizing behavior of the image itself in the browser. You can compare the layouts in the video below:

<video controls autoplay loop>
  <source type="video/mp4" src="./layouts.mp4" />
  <p>Your browser does not support the video element.</p>
</video>

To set the layout, pass in the type to the layout prop. e.g.

```jsx
<StaticImage
  src="./dino.png"
  alt="A dinosaur"
  // highlight-next-line
  layout="fixed"
/>
```

Alternatively, pass it to the resolver:

```graphql
dino {
  childImageSharp {
    # highlight-next-line
    gatsbyImageData(layout: FIXED)
  }
}
```

> #### Constrained

Reviewer: Throwing this out there as an idea: What do you think about putting these values into a table instead of paragraphs? Trying to make this page easier to scan.

Something like: 

| Name | Component prop | Resolver prop | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Constrained | `"constrained"` | `CONSTRAINED` | This is the default layout. It displays... |

I'm imagining something similar to this vibe: https://material-ui.com/api/radio/

Reviewer: Or actually, maybe that makes more sense for the table of contents at the beginning of the doc (~ line 19), since the descriptions aren't so long.

Then it could be:

| Prop | Value | Default Value | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `layout` | constrained or fixed or full width | constrained | ... |

Thoughts?

#### Fixed

_Component prop: `"fixed"`. Resolver prop: `FIXED`_

This is a fixed-size image. It will always display at the same size, and will not shrink to fit its container. This is either the size of the source image, or the size set by the `width` and `height` props. Only use this if you are certain that the container will never need to be narrower than the image.

#### Full Width

_Component prop: `"fullWidth"`. Resolver prop: `FULL_WIDTH`_

Use this for images that are always displayed at the full width of the screen, such as banners or hero images. Like the constrained layout, this resizes to fit the container. However it is not restricted to a maximum size, so will grow to fill the container however large it is, maintaining its aspect ratio. It generates several smaller image sizes for different screen breakpoints, so that the browser only needs to load one large enough to fit the screen. You can pass a `breakpoints` prop if you want to specify the sizes to use, though in most cases you can allow it to use the default.

> ### Sizing options

Reviewer: For consistency, I'd love it if all the prop names could be at the same heading level. (vs. right now there's a difference between the two sizing options and the other three.)

How would you feel about getting rid of this "Sizing options" level and just having two separate h3s for `width / height` and `aspectRatio`?

Reviewer: If we go down that route, the note on line 73 ("Size props are optional...") could maybe go in the `width / height` section? Or combined with the paragraph on line 81 ("If you set just one of these...")?

#### `aspectRatio`

_Layouts: fixed, constrained, and fullWidth_

The `aspectRatio` prop forces an image to the specified aspect ratio, cropping if needed.

For `fixed` and `constrained` images, you can also optionally pass either a `width` or `height`, and it will use that to calculate the other dimension. For example, if you pass `width={800} aspectRatio={4/3}` then `height` will be set to the width divided by the aspect ratio: so `600`. Passing `1` as the aspectRatio will crop the image to a square. If you don't pass a width or height then it will use the source image's width.

For `fullWidth` images you don't specify width or height as it resizes to fit the screen width. Passing `aspectRatio` will crop the image if needed, and the height will scale according to the width of the screen. For example, if you set the aspectRatio to `16/9` then when the image is displayed full width on a screen that is 1024px wide, the image will be 576 pixels high.

> There are several advanced options that you can pass to control the cropping and resizing behavior. For more details, see the advanced options reference.

### Placeholder

> **Prop name: `placeholder`**

Reviewer: This section feels like another good candidate for a video (similar to the layout one) to show what the different options look like.

Gatsby image components are lazy-loaded by default, which means that if they are offscreen they are not loaded by the browser until the come into view. To ensure that the layout does not jump around, a placeholder is displayed before the image loads. There are three types of placeholder that you can choose:

#### Dominant color

> _Component prop: `"dominantColor"`. Resolver prop: `DOMINANT_COLOR`_

Reviewer: If we end up using a table for the `layout` values, we should use a similar table here for the `placeholder` values.

| Prop              | Type                                                                        | Default       | Description                                                                                                                                     |
| ----------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `alt` (Required)  | `string`                                                                    |               | Alternative text, passed to the `<img>` tag. Required for accessibility.                                                                        |
| `as`              | `ElementType`                                                               | `"div"`       | The HTML element used for the outer wrapper.                                                                                                    |

> | `loading`         | `"eager" \| "lazy"`                                                         | `"lazy"`      | Loading behavior for the image. You should set this to `"eager"` for above-the-fold images to ensure they start loading before React hydration. |

Reviewer 3: I think the escaping of the pipe doesn't work with MDX on .com, so while GitHub is fine, the website will show the backslash. I've used the mathematical divisor in the past -- see "Documentation" of this PR https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/pull/28485

Author: Thanks! It doesn't work in Typora either. Great fix.

For a `fixed` layout, these define the size of the image displayed on screen. For a `constrained` image these define the maximum size, as the image will scale down to fit smaller containers if needed.

If you set just one of these, the source image is resized to that width or height while maintaining aspect ratio. If you include both then it is also cropped if needed to ensure it is that exact size.

### `aspectRatio`

_Layouts: fixed, constrained, and fullWidth_

The `aspectRatio` prop forces an image to the specified aspect ratio, cropping if needed. The value is a number, but can be clearer to express as a fraction, e.g. `aspectRatio={16/9}`

For `fixed` and `constrained` images, you can also optionally pass either a `width` or `height`, and it will use that to calculate the other dimension. For example, if you pass `width={800} aspectRatio={4/3}` then `height` will be set to the width divided by the aspect ratio: so `600`. Passing `1` as the aspectRatio will crop the image to a square. If you don't pass a width or height then it will use the source image's width.

> For `fullWidth` images you don't specify width or height as it resizes to fit the screen width. Passing `aspectRatio` will crop the image if needed, and the height will scale according to the width of the screen. For example, if you set the aspectRatio to `16/9` then when the image is displayed full width on a screen that is 1024px wide, the image will be 576 pixels high.

Reviewer 3: Just as an idea: How about using 1280px and 720px? Maybe HD and it's 16:9 ratio is more common

Author: @LekoArts  Great idea. Thanks!

> > There are several advanced options that you can pass to control the cropping and resizing behavior. For more details, see the advanced options reference.

Reviewer 3: Anchor link here?

| `objectFit`       | [See MDN doc](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/object-fit)      | `cover`       | Resizing behavior for the image within its container.                                                                                           |
| `objectPosition`  | [See MDN doc](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/object-position) | `50% 50%`     | Position of the image within its container.                                                                                                     |

### `StaticImage`

The `StaticImage` component can take all [image options](#image-options) as props, as well as all [shared props](#shared-props). Additionally, it takes this prop:

| Prop             | Type     | Description                                                                                           |
| ---------------- | -------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `src` (Required) | `string` | Source image, processed at build time. Can be a path relative to the source file, or an absolute URL. |

> 

Reviewer: ````suggestion

#### Restrictions on using `StaticImage`

The images are loaded and processed at build time, so there are restrictions on how you pass props to the component. The values need to be statically-analyzed at build time, which means you can't pass them as props from outside the component, or use the results of function calls, for example. You can either use static values, or variables within the component's local scope. See the following examples:

This does not work:

```js
// ⚠️ Doesn't work
export function Logo({ logo }) {
  // You can't use a prop passed into the parent component
  return <StaticImage src={logo}>
}
```

...and nor does this:

```js
// ⚠️ Doesn't work
export function Dino() {
    // Props can't come from function calls
    const width = getTheWidthFromSomewhere();
    return <StaticImage src="trex.png" width={width}>
}
```

You can use variables and expressions if they're in the scope of the file, e.g.:

```js
// OK
export function Dino()  {
    // Local variables are fine
    const width = 300
    return <StaticImage src="trex.png" width={width}>
}
```

```js
// Also OK
// A variable in the same file is fine.
const width = 300
export function Dino()  {
    // This works because the value can be statically-analyzed
    const height = width * 16 / 9
    return <StaticImage src="trex.png" width={width} height={height}>
}
```

If you find yourself wishing you could use a prop for the image `src` then it's likely that you should be using a dynamic image.

````

| Dominant color | `"dominantColor"`    | `DOMINANT_COLOR`    | The default placeholder. This calculates the dominant color of the source image and uses it as a solid background color.                                                           |
| Blurred        | `"blurred"`          | `BLURRED`           | This generates a very low-resolution version of the source image and displays it as a blurred background.                                                                          |
| Traced SVG     | `"tracedSVG"`        | `TRACED_SVG`        | This generates a simplified, flat SVG version of the source image, which it displays as a placeholder. This works well for images with simple shapes or that include transparency. |
| None           | `"none"`             | `NONE`              | No placeholder. You can use the background color option to set a static background if you wish.                                                                                    |

### `formats`

> _Default component prop value: `["auto", "webp"]`. Default resolver prop value: `[AUTO, WEBP]`_

Reviewer: Was this line left here intentionally? Might be able to get rid of it, since it's in the table up above. (But I also don't mind having the duplication here - my callout is mostly just that this is the only option that still has a default listed this way.)

| [`placeholder`](#placeholder)           | `"dominantColor"`/`DOMINANT_COLOR`                                   | Choose the style of temporary image shown while the full image loads.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| [`formats`](#formats)                   | `["auto","webp"]`/`[AUTO,WEBP]`                                      | File formats of the images generated.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |

> | [`transformOptions`](#transformoptions) | `{fit: "cover", cropFocus: "attention"}`                             | Options to pass to sharp to control cropping and other image manipulations.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |

Reviewer: Is there a reason you included these ones here again? What would you think about changing this section from "all options" to "additional sharp options" or something like that?

Author: I did it so there was a place to see them all, and make it clear that there's nothing special about the others, just that they're more common.

Reviewer: Cool, that makes sense to me!

| `objectFit`       | [See MDN doc](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/object-fit)      | `cover`       | Resizing behavior for the image within its container.                                                                                           |
| `objectPosition`  | [See MDN doc](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/object-position) | `50% 50%`     | Position of the image within its container.                                                                                                     |

### `StaticImage`

The `StaticImage` component can take all [image options](#image-options) as props, as well as all [shared props](#shared-props). Additionally, it takes this prop:

| Prop             | Type     | Description                                                                                           |
| ---------------- | -------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `src` (Required) | `string` | Source image, processed at build time. Can be a path relative to the source file, or an absolute URL. |

> #### Restrictions on using `StaticImage`
> 
> The images are loaded and processed at build time, so there are restrictions on how you pass props to the component. The values need to be statically-analyzed at build time, which means you can't pass them as props from outside the component, or use the results of function calls, for example. You can either use static values, or variables within the component's local scope. See the following examples:
> 
> This does not work:
> 
> ```js
> // ⚠️ Doesn't work
> export function Logo({ logo }) {
>   // You can't use a prop passed into the parent component
>   return <StaticImage src={logo}>
> }
> ```
> 
> ...and nor does this:
> 
> ```js
> // ⚠️ Doesn't work
> export function Dino() {
>     // Props can't come from function calls
>     const width = getTheWidthFromSomewhere();
>     return <StaticImage src="trex.png" width={width}>
> }
> ```
> 
> You can use variables and expressions if they're in the scope of the file, e.g.:
> 
> ```js
> // OK
> export function Dino()  {
>     // Local variables are fine
>     const width = 300
>     return <StaticImage src="trex.png" width={width}>
> }
> ```
> 
> ```js
> // Also OK
> // A variable in the same file is fine.
> const width = 300
> export function Dino()  {
>     // This works because the value can be statically-analyzed
>     const height = width * 16 / 9
>     return <StaticImage src="trex.png" width={width} height={height}>
> }
> ```
> 
> If you find yourself wishing you could use a prop for the image `src` then it's likely that you should be using a dynamic image.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note:** There are a few technical restrictions to the way you can pass props into StaticImage. For more information, refer to the Reference Guide: [Gatsby Image plugin](/docs/reference/built-in-components/gatsby-plugin-image#restrictions-on-using-staticimage). If you find yourself wishing you could use a prop for the image `src` then it's likely that you should be using a dynamic image.
```
